docs(tuning): updates to log compaction description (#9214)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/managing/con-broker-config-properties.adoc

.Retaining the most recent messages using compact policy

> When you enable log compaction for a topic by setting `cleanup.policy=compact`, Kafka uses the log cleaner as a background process to perform the compaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you enable log compaction for a topic by setting `cleanup.policy=compact`, Kafka uses the log cleaner as a background thread to perform the compaction.
It is one thread by default, but you can add more using the `log.cleaner.threads` configuration.
```

The compact policy guarantees that the most recent message for each message key is retained, effectively cleaning up older versions of records. 
The policy is suitable when message values are changeable, and you want to retain the latest update.

If a cleanup policy is set for log compaction, the _head_ of the log operates as a standard Kafka log, with writes for new messages appended in order. 
In the _tail_ of a compacted log, where the log cleaner operates, records are deleted if another record with the same key occurs later in the log. 
Messages with null values are also deleted. 
To use compaction, you must have keys to identify related messages because Kafka guarantees that the latest messages for each key will be retained, but it does not guarantee that the whole compacted log will not contain duplicates.

.Log showing key value writes with offset positions before compaction
image::tuning/broker-tuning-compaction-before.png[Image of compaction showing key value writes]

> Using keys to identify messages, Kafka compaction keeps the latest message (with the highest offset) for a specific message key, eventually discarding earlier messages that have the same key. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using keys to identify messages, Kafka compaction keeps the latest message (with the highest offset) that is present in the log tail for a specific message key, eventually discarding earlier messages that have the same key. 
```

Consequently, the tail can have non-contiguous offsets. 
When consuming an offset that's no longer available in the tail, the record with the next higher offset is found.

.Log after compaction
image::tuning/broker-tuning-compaction-after.png[Image of compaction after log cleanup]

If appropriate, you can add a delay to the compaction process:

[source,env]
----
# ...
log.cleaner.delete.retention.ms=86400000
# ...
---- 
The deleted data retention period gives time to notice the data is gone before it is irretrievably deleted.

To delete all messages related to a specific key, a producer can send a _tombstone_ message. 
A tombstone has a null value and acts as a marker to inform consumers that the corresponding message for that key has been deleted. 

> After compaction, only the tombstone marker is retained. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After some time, only the tombstone marker is retained. 
```

> The marker is retained for a duration specified by `log.cleaner.delete.retention.ms` to allow consumers enough time to recognize the deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming new messages continue to come in, the marker is retained for a duration specified by `log.cleaner.delete.retention.ms` to allow consumers enough time to recognize the deletion.
```

# ...
----

.Using combined compact and delete policies 

If you choose only a compact policy, your log can still become arbitrarily large. 
In such cases, you can set the cleanup policy for a topic to compact and delete logs.

> Kafka first applies log compaction, removing older versions of records and retaining only the latest version of each key. 

Reviewer 2: It's not really applying compaction "first". Both cleanup policies are applied in parallel. In practice and with default settings, compaction happens more regularly than deletion so it appears to happen "first" but you could have configs where deletion appears to happen "first".
